---
order: 10
path: "/framework-of-an-optimist/"
title: "Framework of an optimist"
subtitle: ""
description: ""
---

## State of mind.

Be a rational optimist and work with others who are rational optimists.

People are descended from pessimists. The pessimists have survived in nature, by being careful and not taking risks. This makes sense in a world full of danger when a tiger could've lurked behind any three. The optimists would be curious and see what that sound was, the pessimist runs away and lives. 

But in the modern world, a pessimist would not take any risks and not dare to win. With a lack of optimism, one will be stuck in a job, complaining about the rest of their lives about how unfair the world is.

So be optimistic, but not irrationally. An optimistic person who chases something worth nothing is a true waste of time. You have to be rational to succeed and balance yourself out.

Elon Musk is probably the best example of a rational optimist. He dares to think big and follows his dreams, but he has the skills, the know-how, and a rational mind to balance it out.

So first of all, learn to be optimistic and override your pessimism. Learn to dare, by doing and taking action. But be mindful and rational in the process and know that you will fail - many times over. As there's no other way to learn and gather experience. Be smart about it by keeping failures small and quick and retaining enough energy to keep iterating.

Stay healthy and have enough energy. You have to work out and balance your emotions with rational decisions.

But stay out of the risk of ruin: jail, hurting yourself and gambling everything. Instead take rational, optimistic bets with large upsides.

## Reject most advice

Most advice is people giving you their winning lottery ticket numbers.

Listen to everyone and ignore everyone. Stay authentic and make up your own mind.

What works for others, won't specifically work for you. They will give you their methods and might encourage you to do the same, but this doesn't apply to anyone staying authentic to themselves.

If you get advice, be quick to decide:

- How does this apply to their context?
- How does it apply to my context?

Even on this website you should examine and question whether it applies to you.

## A Calm Mind, a Fit Body, a House Full of Love

When you’re finally wealthy, you’ll realize it wasn’t what you were seeking in the first place.

After earning all your wealth and richness you'll still be the same person. You'll still have the same emotions and you'll still be prone just like anyone else to an unhappy life. 

Money will solve money-problems and buys you freedom in a material world.

But you still have to work on staying healthy and fit and work on a peaceful internal state.

You'll still have to earn love, which might even be harder when you're rich (e.g. finding love). Any rich person will still have to work on their relationships with others.

So focus on:

- physical health
- mental health
- great relationships