---
order: 11
path: "/framework-of-specific-knowledge/"
title: "Framework of specific knowledge"
subtitle: ""
description: ""
---

Arm yourself with specific knowledge and leverage.

## Specific knowledge can’t be trained

Anything that can be trained, is replaceable. Robots can be trained to do it. You'll be extremely replaceable and/or you'll earn a low wage.

Specific knowledge is something that you can't be trained for. It can't be mass-produced or mass-trained.

People believe anything can be taught in school. But that's not true. The most specific knowledge comes from having a natural ability or curiosity in something. Or you're in a complex environment are able to create judgment in a specific domain.

You can learn investing from reading books, but real-life investing has too many variables. You will need to gain a long time of actual experience to be able to good at it.

Everything can be learned, but not everything can be taught.

## Specific knowledge is found by pursuing your curiosity

Pursue your innate talents, curiosity, and passions.

You find specific knowledge in your passion. You have to be a 100% into it, otherwise, someone else will outperform you. If something feels like work to you, but like play to me, I will "outwork" you. It doesn't matter how smart you are or how many hours you put in.

It could be something that you were praised for in your youth. Often parents will know exactly what it is. Naval wanted to be a scientist when he was young. But without realizing he was more into doing business and his mom called this out when he was very young. She observed already that Naval had a business-curious mind. Naval would tell his mom what the pizza-restaurant could do better or improve for example.

Nowadays Naval combines business with his passion for science. This combined is an example of specific knowledge.

## Specific Knowledge Is Highly Creative or Technical

Specific knowledge tends to be creative or technical. It’s on the bleeding edge of technology, art, and communication.

**Specific knowledge can be taught through apprenticeships**

The best careers are the apprenticeship- or self-taught careers. Society hasn't figured out yet how to train or automate it. A classic example is Warren Buffet who worked for free for Benjamin Graham. He learned from someone who had specific knowledge himself.

Another great example is Scott Adams. Making accurate predictions through persuasive arguments and videos. He was able to brand Dilbert cartoons and mastered Periscope. His brand is unique and he creates wealth using these tools. He has unique knowledge that can't be easily taught or automated. He puts his name out there (=accountability) and creates enormous leverage this way.

### Natural abilities

But you can't be too deliberate about learning specific knowledge. It has to be a natural obsession. If you're too deliberate, you're probably too goal-oriented on money and will not pick the right thing. You need to be a natural at it to obsess about it and to go deep enough and learn the specifics.

## Learn to sell and learn to build.

A great example of 2 skills that can be leveraged massively is building and selling. Learn what people want to buy, how to sell and how to scale. Be able to build it yourself and you have the ultimate combination.

building = programmer, engineer

sales = marketing, communication, recruiting, raising money

Silicon valley loves a team that builds and sells. Popular examples are

- Steve Jobs and Steve Wozniak (Apple)
- Gates and Allen (Microsoft)
- Larry and Sergey (Google).

Elon Musk is an example of someone who can do both.

Building is much harder to learn than marketing. Bill Gates famously paraphrases this as, “I’d rather teach an engineer marketing, than a marketer engineering.”

You will need a large amount of time to learn the complexities of building. Then learn to sell. It is something you can learn later in life. You need to be able to sell to understand how to scale and to understand what a market wants.