---
order: 12
path: "/skills/"
title: "Skills"
subtitle: ""
intro: ""
---

# The 5 most important skills are:

1. Reading
2. Writing
3. Arithmetic
4. Persuasion
5. Programming


Scott Adams blogs about picking a few skills, then become the top 25% in each of them. Combined you will have a unique set of skills that you can leverage. Naval advises to not be too deliberate in choosing which skills. You still have to follow your obsession(s) otherwise you might end up choosing something that's not in your natural desire.


> There’s no actual skill called “business”.
> 
> <cite>Naval </cite>

Business is often just pattern-matching from so-called 'case studies'. You won't learn any real unique skill but will learn to macro-bullshit (Taleb).

# Reading

If you don't enjoy reading, start reading stuff you love, until you love to read. Don't force yourself to read a book you don't enjoy, but move on naturally by whatever interests you.

Once you love to read and want to read more specific knowledge, avoid reading too much junk. When learning about specific knowledge, always start with the fundamentals of a topic. Don't start with highly specific books, but learn the basics first. If you understand the fundamentals, it will be easier to read more specific knowledge later on. Examples of these books are:

- Adam Smith - the Wealth of nations
- Darwin - Origin of the species
- Watson and Crick - The eigth day of creation
- Richard Feynman - six easy pieces.

> I don't know a smart person doesn't read and read all the time. 
>
> <cite>Naval</cite>

Have the desire to learn. You have to cultivate the desire to learn as all the means to learn are abundant. Children are naturally curious, but once we go into adulthood we lose this sense. So we have to learn how to keep the desire to learn.

The ultimate foundations of everything is mathematics and logic. If you understand logic and mathematics, then you have the basis for understanding the scientific method. Once you understand the scientific method, then you can understand how to separate truth from falsehood. This is useful in other fields and other things that you’re reading.

> It’s better to read a great book really slowly than to fly through a hundred books quickly.

This will help you master the foundations and prevent you from reading too much junk.

> I don’t fear the man who knows a thousand kicks and a thousand punches, I fear the man who’s practiced one punch ten thousand times or one kick ten thousand times.
>
> <cite>Bruce Lee</cite>

## Recommendations:

- skin in the game - Taleb
- find some url with books from naval

# The number of “doing” iterations drives the learning curve

To become skilled one has to be doing. You can study a thousand businesses, but starting your own business will teach you more invaluable, unique knowledge by iterating continuously. Doing the same work over and over won't teach you anything new of course. But trying different ways of marketing a product, changing online channels, creating new ways of branding you will learn a lot.

By doing you will understand the different mental models in business and how to apply them. By studying them, you will only understand what these models are, but you wouldn't know how to apply them.

If you've played games your whole life, studying game theory makes no sense to you. It's something you would be doing or thinking naturally. Reading books would be a waste of time as it's all common sense.

## Pain
Doing something new is painful. It's uncertain territory with high odds to fail. So get used to frequent small failures, by doing (new) things from scratch over and over again. If you're willing to bleed a little every day, you may win big later.

> We’re not evolved to bleed a little bit every day. If you’re out in the natural environment, and you get a cut and you’re literally bleeding a little bit every day, you will eventually die. You’ll have to stop that cut. <br><br> We’re evolved for small victories all the time but that becomes very expensive. That’s where the crowd is. That’s where the herd is. So, if you’re willing to bleed a little bit every day but in exchange, you’ll win big later, you will do better.<br><br> That is, by the way, entrepreneurship. Entrepreneurs bleed every day. <br><br> They’re not making money, they’re losing money, they’re constantly stressed out, all the responsibility is upon them, but when they win they win big. On average they’ll make more.
> <cite> Naval </cite>

First time I heard this, it sounded paradoxical to me. But later, I understood, being an entrepeneur basically means being stressed out constantly while risking it every day, aiming for the highest prize.

So learn how to cope with pain.