---
order: "13"
path: "/work-as-hard-as-you-can/"
title: "Work as hard as you can"
subtitle: ""
description: ""
---

Let's talk about 2 types of people. Those who work to live, have a family to take care of and do not have a goal to be as wealthy as possible.

The other does want to be as wealthy as possible. They will have to work hard as they can to keep up with what they call the Olympics of startups. It's about going for the gold medal.

But it will never be able to substitute what you work on and who you work with. See this as a pillar of 3:

1. What do you work on? Is there a(n emerging) market for this? Am I excited and do I have specific knowledge about this?
2. Who do you work with? Work with those who are great enough to raise your bar, no matter how high your bar is. An example of this is '[the paypal mafia](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nvQ4p82-D54)', they're a group of students who've made each other stinkingly rich.
3. How hard do you work? If you've picked the right things previously mentioned, then start working as hard as you can.

Naval makes the distinction of working as a predator. Sprint as hard as you can when working on something you're passionate about. Especially in moments of inspiration and excitement. Then rest and take a good long break. Nobody works 80-120hour workweeks, that's status signaling and detrimental to your health.

**Seize the moment.**

When you feel inspired and excited, start working on it immediately. If you hesitate or wait too long, the energy of excitement that came with it might die off.

**Impatience with actions, patience with results**

If you want to do something, do it now. Don't wait, don't give in to hesitation. But also don't expect instant results. As a society, we're so used to instant gratification, that we've lost the skill to be patient.

A product takes time and requires countless iterations until you feel it's polished.

Finding a market to sell your work too, will need lots of research and thus time.

Be consistent and keep working until the results slowly but surely drip in. So be patient with results.