---
order: 14
path: "/productise-yourself/"
title: "Productise yourself"
subtitle: ""
intro: "Keep redefining what you do until you’re the best at what you do"
---


You want to be number 1 at whatever it is that you enjoy doing.

But you should never stop evolving along the way. You keep redefining. If you pick something arbitrary, such as becoming the fastest runner in the world, then you'll have to beat Usain Bolt. Which is too hard of a task.

## Escape competition through authenticity

Instead, you keep changing your goal. your specific knowledge, skillsets, capabilities, and interests will evolve along that goal.

The 2 concepts you focus on are:

- I want to be the best at what I do
- What I do is flexible so that I am the best at it.

Keep this in mind and keep applying it. Until you've found something that resonates with you and keeps you authentic.

Apart from this, you will also need to find **product-market-fit**. Because you want to stay authentic to yourself, we'll have to dive deeper and realize we need **founder-product-market-fit**.

The founder has to love and believe in the product and the market has to want the product. There are many objectives to achieve.


# [type luck #4](/luck/)

Once you do your own thing, with your unique personality, nobody can compete. Who can compete with Joe Rogan? With Oprah? Or with Trump? They're irreplaceable in their own unique way. So the more authentic you are to yourself, the less competition you will have. Nobody can compete you on being you.

People copy desires from others. Inspiration comes from others and that is fine. You are and in this case, want to be what surrounds you.

But copying desires, create status games. In the end, you'll end up competing over things that aren't worth competing over. You'll have to realize this yourself and escape them yourself. Often, this happens by pure chance. But if you stay authentic to who you are, you should be able to escape these games by authenticity.

A great example is Elon Musk. His products are a reflection of this authentic desire. He has a mission to go to Mars and anyone else building rockets won't change this desire to go to Mars one bit.

And nobody is going to copy Elon Musk.

So authenticity will keep you away from the competition.

There can be a conflict between your authenticity and a product-market fit. You will have to change and adjust if nobody wants to pay for what you love to do. This will keep you away from copy-catting and playing status-games.

# Ignore the masses.

In entrepreneurship, the masses are never right. If they were and they knew how to create great products, then there was no need for any of this.

If there is a lot of competition, sometimes that dictates the masses are already there.

But if nobody is in the market, then perhaps you're too authentic and there's nothing to get.

This is the continual balance and game you have to play with yourself.

# Don't be one-dimensional.

Even though we portray ourselves in 1dimensional beings, don't. A banker can be in one or multiple niches, like picking stocks, creating relationships, management, etc. We all have our own niches. And if we stay authentic to ourselves we will lean towards the things we enjoy and become great at them.

So there are a bunch of topics you need to keep balancing around and explore:

- **your authentic self** <br>you will have to explore and stay truthful to your heart to understand what you like and what you don't.
- **product-market fit**<br>Unless your incredibly lucky, you won't find instant product-market fit. You'll have to keep searching, adding, removing until you get a response from the market. If you do this while staying authentic to yourselves you will find founder-product-market fit.

So you'll need to stick to multiple foci:
- stick to what you love to do
- learn new things and learn to love them (don't be too forceful about this)
- have the desire to be the best at what you're doing
- balance this with what your authentic self and keep looking for other things
- keep combining the things you love and a combination of this could lead to a unique, authentic product
- And while you're juggling this around, don't forget to stay out of [status-games](/what-is-wealth-and-why/).