---
order: 3
path: "/bits-of-history/"
title: "Bits of history"
subtitle: "Make Abundance for the World & free markets."
description: "History on money, wealth and insights"
---

> Wealth isn’t about taking something from somebody else—it’s about creating abundance for the world.
> 
> <cite>Naval</cite>

Ethical wealth creation makes abundance for the world.

Non-ethical wealth is stealing a.k.a. men with weapons, taxes, crony capitalism, communism, etc. Think of parasites in nature. There are symbiotic ones, which give back. But most parasites only take. Non-ethical-wealth often seems the easy way to get rich. Non-ethical wealth is why we have phrases such as "money is the root of all evil".

Some people create for others, let's call them makers. They get rewarded by society, but also run the risk of being victims of theft (parasites). But the rewards can be huge and true wealth can be created, for society and the maker.

> I believe everyone can be rich.
>
> <cite>Naval</cite>

Wealth creation makes this possible. An example: the poor of today in the first world are richer than the rich of the mid-ages. The poor of today have access to antibiotics, electricity, smart-phones, an abundance of food, clean drinking water, etc.

The rich of the mid-ages did not all have this. This is due to wealth creation, and technology is the multiplier behind this. Wealth creation enlarges accessibility and availability to all kinds of people.

> Capitalism, meaning free markets, is intrinsic to the human species
>
> <cite>Naval</cite>

Since the dawn of time, we've exchanged information with each other and have always kept track of this information in forms of credits and debits. If you worked for someone, you will keep track of your credits and debits.

What lets the human species cooperate? It is because we can keep track of credits and debits. We ask ourselves: who put in how much work? Who contributed how much? That is all a **free market capitalism** is.

We need free minds and free markets. Voluntary small-scale exchanges between humans that won't negatively impact others.

Wealth creation is not about taking. It's about creating abundance in this world.

> Too many takers and not enough makers will plunge society into ruin
> 
> <cite>Naval</cite>

Too many parasites in your body will eventually kill you. In societies with too many parasites, societies will be ruined. Venezuela is a prime example.

Forms of capitalism that goes wrong are monopolies, fraud, and corruption.

If Venezuela is an example of a ruined society, at the opposite of the spectrum you will find the West and the U.S. A place where immigrants can come to find the "American dream". They can work hard there and become wealthy or earn basic money. Like everything else in this world, wealth or success is relative to what you want. But the amount of opportunity is what makes the difference between these countries.