---
order: 5
path: "/wealth-creation/"
title: "Wealth Creation"
subtitle: "The goal of wealth is freedom"
description: ""
---

You won't be gathering wealth when you're renting out your time (e.g. a job, a freelancer with an hourly- or day-rate, etc). You need to earn money in a non-linear way, something that can compound and can give you leverage.

The goal of garnering wealth is freedom. Freedom is time, doing things on your schedule. Not waking up for someone else.

Anything that ties your input to your output in a linear fashion is something you would like to avoid. You want to be able to extrapolate the results with the energy you put in. So a monthly salary, even at the level of a lawyer or doctor won't create true wealth for you.

> The three most harmful addictions are heroin, carbohydrates, and a monthly salary.
> 
> <cite> Nassim Nicholas Taleb </cite>

Renting out time also means you're replaceable. If they teach it in a school or college, there are thousands like you being cranked out every year. All competing for the same job. In the future, this job can be replaced by robots or even AI.

Wealth is something you build slow and steady, but consistently. It might start out small, but it has the potential to grow, in a non-linear fashion.

You have to own equity, a piece of business, product(s) or stocks. Something that can compound your money over time.

Do a job or get good at something where the inputs and outputs are highly disconnected and thus high leverage(link) can be applied.

An example is a software engineer. An engineer could create software used by millions of people, but they can also work on an app for years and have no tangible results.

On the other end, you have a lumberjack. The output of the best lumberjack in the world is maybe 3x higher than the average lumberjack. The difference is not that big. The amount of possible success is thus not that big.

So for the lumberjack, it will be very hard, if impossible, to create true wealth.

## Live below your means

If freedom is your goal, another way to achieve freedom is by living below your means. 

Understand that you don't need to buy status signaling items. The money you save can be used to start as an entrepreneur where you might have to live months without a salary. It can be invested in stocks or in learning new skills.

The average Joe will upgrade and spend extra cash to show off. You see this all the time. They get a raise and they will spend the monthly extras on upgrading their life. New expensive clothing, a new car, a new sound system, etc.

## Creating wealth together aka working with others

To be successful you have to work with the right people. How do you know who are the "right" people? Trust is one of the keys here. People can only trust others after successfully working together. This means playing a long-term game, with long-term people. 

People can always turn their back on you, but usually, this is the exception. E.g. when someone got so rich, they don't care anymore.

Work with people who have high intelligence, high energy, and high integrity. Don't compromise on any. This i

- If someone is smart, but can't get out of bed, what good is this?
- If someone has high energy but keeps running the wrong way?
- If someone is smart with high energy, but can't be trusted?

Look for motivated, intelligent people who signal (non-verbally) the right things (what they do versus what they say). 

So find people who are smart in the thing(s) you want to do, who is intrinsically motivated with high self-esteem (not to be confused with ego). Someone with good morals, usually don't say they are of high integrity. But crooks usually do (typical mafia characters) They're usually playing a status-game.

So partner with rational optimists and be one yourself (link to state of mind).

This also means you can't hop from industry to industry. You will be starting from scratch over and over again.

So pick an industry where you can play a long-term game in. 

> "In a long-term game, it seems that everybody is making each other rich. And in a short-term game, it seems like everybody is making themselves rich." 
> 
> <cite>Nivi</cite>

## Compound

Playing a long-term game, usually means you will be compounding over time.

Some examples are:

- Relationships: getting married (investing in relationships, children, raising them) versus casual short-term relationships.
- In health and fitness: the fitter you are, the easier it is to stay fit. Once you stop working out, become unhealthy, it will be harder to come back.
- Compound interest

Keep iterating the game in all returns in life. Wealth, relationships and knowledge can come from compound interests.

A very popular way to live life below your means is called F.I.R.E.

(add a couple of popular FIRE websites links)

In FIRE they talk a lot about compounding. The compounding effect, return on return or earn money with money means that you extrapolate over time. 

[Here's a great example](https://pursuefire.com/the-power-of-compounding-the-rule-of-72/) of how someone with less money can eventually have a lot more money simply by having made smart decisions, being consistent and having patience.

(link to book: 'the compound effect')

Keep iterating the game in all returns in life: wealth, relationships and knowledge can come from compound interests.