---
order: 6
path: "/leverage/"
title: "Leverage"
subtitle: "There are different types of leverage. Older and newer ones:"
intro: ""
---

<blockquote class="column-span">
  <p>Give me a lever long enough and a place to stand and I will move the Earth. </p> 

  <cite>Archimedes</cite>
</blockquote>


# Labor

The oldest kind of leverage is labor. Having a couple of people carry stones will do it quicker than you alone. Being the oldest kind of leverage means it's recognized and overvalued in society. E.g. impressed parents when you get promoted to a management function and you have people working for you now. But managing people is messy and takes a lot of time and leadership skills, so it doesn't scale well.

# Capital

Capital is another form of old leverage. It scales much better than labor but is hard to get. It requires you to be a [credible person](/accountability) and have specific knowledge of a domain. But if you have this then people will give you capital as a form of leverage. You can scale capital very well. You can convert it to labor and other services. Most of the rich non-tech companies got rich by using capital as leverage.

# Product and media

New forms of leverage are product and media. They have no marginal costs of replication and don't need permission. You can code, build products, create podcasts, tweet, etc without anyone's permission. E.g. Before you needed to get permission to be on tv and it would leverage their channel, not yours.

Product and media will work for you while you sleep.

All the new rich of late use this form of leverage. Examples of products are Google, Amazon, and Microsoft. Examples of media are Joe Rogan and Pewdiepie.

Combining all forms of leverage is the magic combination. E.g. tech companies use engineers and designers as labor. Capital for marketing, advertising, and scaling. Media are podcasts and blogs and coded products.

## Robots

Robots are the ultimate form of leverage and they've been here a while - just not in physical form. It's all in code. These programs perform your tasks while you sleep. While running on servers. These robots work 24/7 and if you can code, you can command an army of robots doing the work for you.

## Products

Certain expensive products are only served for the upper class. such For example Rolex or Lamborghini. They use these products to signal their wealth and status. They're made more expensive so only a select few can buy them. They're nothing but status products (in a [status-game](/what-is-wealth-and-why/)).

But rich people can't buy better search results from Google or have a different browsing experience.

People want to use the products that are the most used by other people. So the best products focus on the sweet spot where the availability is the largest. Think of products such as Netflix, Google, Facebook, Youtube, etc... The products that are used the most, have the largest budgets and will create the highest quality.

### Ethical products

If you care about ethics in wealth-creation, using code and media are the best way. These products tend to become the most egalitarian. They'll be available for everyone, as it's scaling options are (almost) infinite. Compare this to (especially) labor and capital and you'll enter territories detrimental to society. E.g. Clothing brands who outsource their labor to cheaper countries. Where the workers live under cumbersome and sometimes even dangerous circumstances.

### Niche products

The internet allows you to scale any niche obsessions. You're able to reach anyone and thus the internet has created the possibility of new careers and business opportunities. But you have to find these opportunities yourself. Examples are tiny homes, [people that work and travel](http://nomadlist.com), E-sports to [selling ants](https://www.antstore.net/shop/en/advanced_search_result.php?categories_id=0&keywords=Atta+cephalotes&inc_subcat=1) online.

**Ideally, you should pick a business model with network effects, low marginal costs and scale economies.**

### Important microeconomic concepts:

- **Economies of scale**: the more you produce of something, the cheaper it gets to be made.
- **Zero marginal costs of reproduction:** producing more is free. Such as media products The costs don't increase when more people listen to a podcast (the product).
- **Network effects**: Value grows as the square of the customers. Network effects businesses are natural monopolies (e.g. Uber, Google, Amazon). Each new user creates more value to the existing users and it's harder for existing users to leave ("I can't just switch away from Facebook, everybody is on it.").

Network effects are a very powerful concept. When you’re picking a business model, it’s a good idea to pick a model where you can benefit from network effects. Have low marginal costs and scale economies. These tend to go together.

Anything free to reproduce has scale economies on its side. They very often tend to have potential network effects as well. It doesn’t cost you anything more to stamp out the thing. So then you can create little hooks for users to add value to each other.

Zero-marginal-costs-businesses can pivot into network-effect-businesses. You should always be thinking about how your users (your customers) can add value to each other. This will increase the quality of the product and thus attract more users. More users mean more quality to the product. It becomes a loop (of leverage) and it grows while you sleep.

Examples of zero-marginal-costs-businesses are Instagram, Facebook, and Tinder. Google Plus is another example. But Facebook was already benefitting from the network effects. Thus Google Plus never had a chance to surpass Facebook's growth and has since ceased to exist.

# So give Society what It doesn’t yet know how to get

Oil made J.D. Rockefeller rich. Cars made Henry Ford rich. The iPhone made Steve Jobs rich.

Once upon a time they were both new technologies. Now that we have it, it's still massively used.

So figure out what it is that society wants within your skillset and capabilities. Once you've built it, you have to know how to scale it. The easier it is to scale, the more people can use and the more society will pay you for it.

Build something you need yourself. If you need it, others need it. You polish it and you sell it.

Often products start for rich people only. Then entrepreneurs use technology to scale it and make it available to the wider audience. For example, having a private chauffeur was only for rich people. Now we have Uber.

Predict what society wants, but doesn’t know how to get, and deliver it at scale.