---
order: 8
path: "/time/"
title: "Time"
subtitle: ""
intro: ""
---

Time is the most important and limited currency we all have.

> Reading is faster than listening, doing is faster than watching. Hence this website.
> 
> <cite>Rou Hun Fan</cite>

If outsourcing a task will cost less than your hourly rate, outsource it.

## Your calendar

Be ruthless about dodging meetings. Waste no time on "networking". You can be serendipitous with meetings, but the odds are low. It's a type 1 luck, blind luck. Rather spend that time on developing or creating content, which will be type 3 or 4 luck. Be good at spotting opportunities and work on your reputation and personality.

If someone wants a meeting, do a phone call instead. If someone wants a phone call, do an email instead. If they want an email, see if it can fit in a text message instead. Ignore most text-messages unless they're true, urgent emergencies.

So be too busy to "do coffee" and keep an uncluttered calendar. If you have to: do walking/standing meetings. Keep them short, actionable & with few people. Do them when your energy is low and you're not highly productive anyway. After or during lunch for example.

If you can meet important, busy people, make sure you are super actionable. Approach them only with an actual product and with evidence of product progress. Don't waste their time as busy and important people understand how to value their time.

## Play stupid games, win stupid prizes.

The competition will blind you to greater games, you're one step away from a better market.

Partly your [state of mind](/framework-of-an-optimist/). You will get jealous or fearful of the competition, but you shouldn't mind these emotions. Instead, you stay oriented on the goal and mission.

Depending on the industry you're working in the competition can be uplifting. You get inspired by new ideas or look for collaboration opportunities. If there is competition, there is an often market. In other "a-winner-takes-all" industry the competition will enrage you instead.

But that rage will take your eyes off the real goal. Naval tells a story of his startup. They changed their mission from reviews, towards price-comparison - which Amazon won. Instead, if kept their focus on reviews, they could've turned into a Yelp or TripAdvisor. If they had stayed authentic to themselves

Many people spend their time playing social games on Twitter or other social media. They're trying to improve their social standing and try to win stupid, social, worthless prizes. Don't fall in this trap.

Learning to value your time is primary to creating true wealth.

## Set an Aspirational Hourly Rate

Setting a very high hourly rate means you force yourself to make decisions based on that hourly rate. If you can earn a $100 per hour and groceries would take you half an hour. Is doing the groceries yourself really saving you the few dollars then if you had ordered your groceries? If you can hire a cleaner to work for you, for $50/hour, can you work more in that time? It will make you super efficient with your time.

If your number one desire is to be rich, this is a no-brainer. Penny-pinching will not save you money if you understand the principles of time and money.

> My aspirational rate was $5,000/hr - naval

Outsource if it's less than your hourly rate. You can apply this to anything and everything. It's all about saving time, so:

> You should be working on your product and getting product-market fit. And you should be exercising and eating healthy.
> 
> <cite>Paul Graham</cite>

What Paul says, that’s about it. That’s all you have time for while you’re on this mission to gaining true wealth.

### Your hourly rate should seem absurdly high.

Set a very high hourly aspirational rate for yourself and stick to it. It should seem and feel absurdly high. If it doesn’t, it’s not high enough. Whatever you picked, raise it. Before Naval had money, he already set rate of $5,000 an hour.

> Ironically, I actually think I’ve beaten it. I’m not the hardest working person; I’m actually a lazy person. I work through bursts of energy where I’m really motivated with something. If I actually look at how much I’ve earned per actual hour that I’ve put in, it’s probably quite a bit higher than that.
> 
> <cite>Naval</cite>

Rou Hun: At first I thought, "don't burn money you don't have". I asked Naval about the risk of spending money, you don't have, and he answered:

> [Aspirational, so it should be just at the edge of reach. It’ll value and free up time enough to focus on true wealth creation.](https://twitter.com/naval/status/1169689743518392320)